---
title: gratitute
wen: 16
references:
  - https://prajna.io/07283fea-1ece-41b4-9711-4f1708e25acb/133
---
Siu calls this "contentment", saying,

  at the outset, we are enthusiastic
    and this turns to boastfulness

and here he cites Schlesinger, who quotes Roosevelt, who credits Harriman with saying:

    he could buy a sufficient number of legislators to protect his interests
    and when that was not enough, he bought the judges too

  but when we become quiet, firm as a rock
    yet sensitive to the first imperceptible signs of change
  we do not delay in taking action

and here he cites Roche,

    i see forming in the air, the darkening sky

  we look to others, in dependency, for their favors
    we indulge in pleasure and affluence
  and if we don't change immediately
    we will face deep regrets later

here citing Fielding,

    he is not gentle, handsome, witty, brave or good-humored
    who is rich, rich, rich, rich, rich

    that one word contradicts everything else
    you may say about him

  we must then,
    confident in ourselves and free of suspicion of others
  be sincere in our dedication
  to instill harmony and happiness in others,
    gathering those around us in effective cooperation

So in this, Siu dances around the real meaning here,
missing the point.

This image is indeed one of wealth, affluence, and joy,
but the discerning recognize that these things are not the essence of their being,
and seeking to extend them artificially -- to cling to them -- is counter-productive.

Instead, the call here is to enjoy this moment,
celebrate and be grateful enthusiastically for what one has.

As Browning says,

  We speak of what is; not of what might be,
  and how 'twere better if 'twere otherwise.
  My business is not to remake myself within,
  but make the best of what reality there is without.

or, alternatively, de Staël-Holstein:

  to understand all
  makes me very tolerant

There is a real danger in
always wanting [more](https://youtu.be/cCeeTfsm8bk),
that we must guard against.
The joys of the past are past,
but the vibrancy of the present moment is with us
when we turn to embrace it.
It glitters like a diamond,
at the center of existence.


