---
title: Correcting Decay
wen: 18
---

A worm or parasite, like one that grows in the belly,
this is easy to confuse as some sickness, pestilence, or other disease.

But Huang sees contradiction here, noting,

    As Wen says,
        “sublimely prosperous and smooth
        favorable to cross great rivers.”
    If [y46] is “decay,” “poison,” “destruction,” or “corruption,”
    how can the sign deserve
    the most auspicious labels of prosperity and smoothness,
    and be it favorable to cross great rivers.

And quoting Kongzi (Confucius),

  The world will be regulated in good order. 
  It is favorable to cross great rivers.
  It is time to go forward and do something.

  It indicates that every ending follows a new beginning.
  This is the course of Heaven.”

Huang concludes, saying,
"Obviously, [y46] bears the meaning of
turning over a new leaf and making a fresh start."

Some have said that the ancient image,
of worms in a bowl,
is silkworms --
  a sign of prosperity for some,
  and for others a sign of hard labor.
This may be tied to gender roles in ancient Zhonggua,
where men got rich in the silk trade,
while women labored to care for the worms.
In both cases,
the image og [y46] evokes that of new opportunities --
that embra

In an ancient poem of the Sh'ui, Mother sings [y46]:

    iggly, wiggly, gooey, jelly
    i feel wyrms dance in my belly

In the song, wyrm eventually wriggle to the surface
where they ultimately transform into dragyn --
  the most auspicious of all creatures.

So embedded in this warning of pestilence and corruption
there is a clear sign, an opportunity of redemption.

